DataBricks - Generative AI Course


Generative AI Basics
Generative AI is a type of artificial intelligence technology that can produce various types of content, including text, imagery, audio and synthetic data. 

The technology, it should be noted, is not brand-new. Generative AI was introduced in the 1960s in chatbots. But it was not until 2014, with the introduction of generative adversarial networks, or GANs -- a type of machine learning algorithm -- that generative AI could create convincingly authentic images, videos and audio of real people.

It unlocks the value of *your* data.

LLM Model cesion criteria
Privacy, Quality, Cost and Latency

If we want to implement our own modern LLM application the we need to consider 2 flavours of LLMs

	a) Open-Source Models - eg. Meta AI Llama, Databricks, Mosaic MPT
	b) Proprietary Models - eg.Anthrop\c, OpenAI, BARD, ChatGPT, PaLlm 	   2, etc

Proprietary Models
Pros:
1) Speed of Development
	+Quick to get started
	+As this is an API, it will fit in existing pipelines
2) Quality
	+can offer state of the a results

Cons:
1) Cost
	+pay for each token sent/received

2) DataPrivacy/Security 
	+ you may know how your data is being used

3) Vendor Lock-in
	+ Suseptible to vendor outages, deprecated features,etc

Open Source Models
Pros:
1) Task-tailoring
	select and/or fine tune a task specific model for your use case

2) Inference Cost
	+more tailored models oftn smaller, making them faster at inference 	 time

3) Control
	+all of the data and model information stays entirely within your 	 locus of control

Cons:
1) Upfront time investments
	+needs time to select, evaluate and possibly tune 

2) Data Requirements
	+ Fine-tuning or larger models require larger datasets

3) Skill Sets
	+ Require in-house expertise


Fine Tuned Models
In both the cases i.e Proprietary Models and Open Source Models, we get the option to fine tune models

Defintion: The process of further training a pre-trained model on a specific dataset to adapt it for a particular application or domain.

Here, a foundation models is fine tuned for a specific tasks or for domain adaptation using Supervised traing on a smaller labled datasets.
For example: Task specific fine-tuned models:
	     +Question-Asnwering
	     +Sentiment Analysis
	     +Named Entity Recognition

For example: Domain specific fine-tuned models:
	     + Science
	     + Finance
	     + Legal

In Many LLM based Applications, we may have multiple tasks. To execute each task we may need a mix of LLMs i.e foundational models or fine tuned models.
To achieve mixed LLM workflow in LLM applications, there is a concept called Chains. Developer chain the LLMs into such applications. A famous tool used for the same is Langchain. 

Additionally, it is important to utilize a vector database to store the state of the chain. A vector database facilitates an efficient storage and retreival mechanism of data which is generated during the chaining process. Vector Database assits in seamless coordination among












Generative AI combine various AI algorithms to represent and process content. For example, to generate text, various natural language processing techniques transform raw characters (e.g., letters, punctuation and words) into sentences, parts of speech, entities and actions, which are represented as vectors using multiple encoding techniques. Similarly, images are transformed into various visual elements, also expressed as vectors. One caution is that these techniques can also encode the biases, racism, deception and puffery contained in the training data.

How does Generative AI work?
How does generative AI work?
Generative AI starts with a prompt that could be in the form of a text, an image, a video, a design, musical notes, or any input that the AI system can process. Various AI algorithms then return new content in response to the prompt. Content can include essays, solutions to problems, or realistic fakes created from pictures or audio of a person.





LLMs and Generative AI


LLM Applications


AI Adoption Preperation


Legality


Ethical Considerations


Human-AI Interations


